**GET** and **PATCH** List endpoints support query parameters.

This section describes the syntax and options used for the query parameter. This is a mandatory parameter for List documents.

The general format for a “query” parameter is to add the parameter as _query={}_ to the end of a GET request for a List document after the parameter delimiter (“?”), where the value of query= is a JSON object:

http://{base\_url}/documentList?query={key: value}

Such as:

http://{base\_url}/jmJobList?query={"job\_no": "12345"[}](http://base_url/jmJobList?query={%22job_no%22:%2212345%22})

**Note:** The query parameter is supported only for GET and PATCH requests for List type documents and is **not** supported by GET requests for Setup or Maintenance documents.

In the simplest form, the value is a single piece of information, such as a string or integer. In more complex forms, the value is a JSON object containing specific formats as described below.

In these examples below, the _baseurl_ is assumed to include the document endpoint  
e.g ‘[https://example.com/api/v2/database/example/JmJobList’](https://example.com/api/v2/database/example/JmJobList%E2%80%99)

### TIP: URL encoding of special characters e.g. % and +

When using HTML special characters as part of the query value, they must be URL encoded.

Example:  to use a wildcard query such as "**%dave%"**, the % needs substituting with **%25**.  Once URL encoded will look like this **%25dave%25**

Example GET query with URL encoded wildcard :

{{server}}/MoMediaOrderList?query={"wo\_desc":"**%25dave%25**"}&resultcolumns={"L": \["wo\_no", "wo\_desc"\]}

_(Specifically the reason why **%dave%** fails to return valid results it that **%da** is the encoding for the **Ú** character)_

This also applies to datetime values that use the offset attribute with the + sign.

To include a value of "**2023-06-01T09:00+5:00**" in a URL query parameter, substitute + with **%2b**

Example:

?query={"wo\_begin\_dt":{"$range":\["2023-06-01T09:00**%2b**5:00","2023-06-01T17:00**%2b**5:00"\]}}

-   **String or Number**

<table><tbody><tr><td>Description&nbsp;</td><td>The value in returned items must match a specified string. The string<br>can either be letters or numbers. Wildcard ‘%’ can be used.&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td>Syntax&nbsp;</td><td>“field”:” value”</td></tr><tr><td><p>Examples:</p></td><td><p><em>baseurl</em>?Query={“job_desc”:” Big Apple Live”}</p><p><em>baseurl</em>?Query={“job_desc”:”%Big%”}</p><p><em>baseurl</em>?Query={“job_no”:101101}</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

To specify multiple key/value pairs, separate each key/value pair with a comma:  
_baseurl_?query={"cust\_id":"123","job\_type\_no":"4"}  
_baseurl_?query={"cust\_id":"123","job\_type\_no":"4","active":"Y"}  
Note: When specifying multiple key/value pairs, the API will return only items that match ALL specified criteria.

-   **Range**

<table><tbody><tr><td>Description</td><td>&nbsp;The value in returned items must fall between a specified minimum<br>and maximum numeric value.</td></tr><tr><td>Syntax&nbsp;</td><td>“field”:{"$range":[lower_limit, upper_limit]}</td></tr><tr><td>Examples</td><td>baseurl?Query={“job_no”:{"$range":[100, 199]}}<br>baseurl?query={"wo_begin_dt":{"$range":["2023-12-01","2023-12-31"]}}<br>baseurl?query={"wo_begin_dt":{"$range":["2023-06-01T09:00","2023-06-<br>01T17:00"]}}</td></tr></tbody></table>

-   **In (Set)**

<table><tbody><tr><td>Description&nbsp;</td><td>The value in returned items must match one of the values provided in a given set of values.</td></tr><tr><td>Syntax&nbsp;</td><td>“field”:{"$in":[“value_1”,”value_2”, … ”value_n”]}</td></tr><tr><td>Examples&nbsp;</td><td>baseurl?Query={“job_no”:{"$in":[100, 105, 110, 119]}}</td></tr></tbody></table>

**TIP: Searching for multiple wildcard values**

If you wanted to search for multiple wildcard values contained within a single field that all need to exist, then you can include a list of wildcard values.

For example, if you wanted to search for media assets that have "Tale" AND "Dark" in their "master\_desc" field, you can use the following query parameter:

{"master\_desc":{$in:\["%Tale%Dark%","%Tale%Dark%"\]}}

Or with encoding of the % symbol (if using Postman) you need:

{"master\_desc":{$in:\["%25Tale%25Dark%25","%25Tale%25Dark%25"\]}}

-   **Null / Empty**

<table><tbody><tr><td>Description&nbsp;</td><td>The value in returned items must be NULL. Note: Put pipe characters<br>around NULL to differentiate it from the literal string “NULL”.</td></tr><tr><td>Syntax&nbsp;</td><td>"field”: “|NULL|”&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td>Examples&nbsp;</td><td>baseurl?Query={“phone_number”:{"|NULL|"}}</td></tr></tbody></table>

-   **NE (Not Equal)**

<table><tbody><tr><td>Description&nbsp;</td><td>The value in returned items must not match the specified number, string, or NULL.</td></tr><tr><td>Syntax&nbsp;</td><td>“field”:{"$ne":”value”}</td></tr><tr><td><p>Examples:<br>&nbsp;Not equal<br>&nbsp;Not null&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;Not like</p></td><td><p>baseurl?Query={"job_desc ":{"$ne":"Big Apple Live"}}<br>baseurl?Query={"cust_id":{"$ne":1001}}<br>baseurl?Query={"jm_phase_external_key":{"$ne":"|NULL|"}}<br>baseurl?Query={"wo_desc":{"$ne":"Test%"},"wo_type_no": 83}&nbsp;</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

**NULL Values**

The Null parameter returns any record that has a null value for the specified key, which indicates that no value has ever been set. This differentiates it from an empty string for text-based or date-based properties, a 0 value for numbers, and true or false values for Boolean properties.

**Note:** Not all properties support null values. If possible, check whether the database column in the appropriate column allows nulls.

**Keys** are strings and generally match the column name from a given database table. It is  
recommended to match the case of the key name as shown in the Swagger API documentation if possible.

**Values**

\- String values are not case-sensitive.

\- DateTime values should be provided in a valid ISO date format.

## **resultColumns parameter**

Used by the **GET** method on List and (v10.6) Maintenance endpoints.

ResultColumns parameter is used to define the fields you wish to have returned in the response.  
Without this parameter, the response will contain all document fields.

_For example:_  
{baseurl}/JmJobList?Query={"job\_no":2}&resultColumns={"L":\["job\_no","job\_desc"\]}

Job No. and Job Description fields will be included in the response.  
Important to include the “L” top-level element.

**Sub-Table columns**

Many endpoints include related sub-tables in their responses. Example syntax to include specific sub-table columns.

Below example fetches a tranmission order description and all it's service row numbers:

{base\_url}/XmTransmissionOrder/wo\_no\_seq=7655-1?resultColumns={"jm\_work\_order":\["wo\_desc"\],"mo\_service\_row":\["service\_row\_no"\]}

_Response:_

{

    "jm\_work\_order": \[

        {

            "wo\_desc": "WS Transmission Test",

            "mo\_service\_row": \[

                {

                    "service\_row\_no": {

                        "service\_row\_no": 9933,

                        "external\_key": null

                    }

                },

                {

                    "service\_row\_no": {

                        "service\_row\_no": 9934,

                        "external\_key": null

                    }

                }

            \]

        }

    \]

}

**Performance recomendation.** Always use the ResultColumns parameter otherwise responses will return large numbers of fields most of which will not be required and only adds to the system perfromance overhead. In future API versions, this will become a mandatory parameter.
