## What's new v11



# User permissions
Know limitations - When Divisions are enabled, REST API will always use the users default division
Enable a user for REST API access
Assign security roles or enable as a super user.



# upsert is now supported
PUT on all maintenance document types.
Delete all sub tables parameters.
https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/16791
https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/16076
Verify that as an API user (using Postman) that by including the header for the PUT method:
 RowAction 
with a value of:
`{"DeleteAll":["<sub table name>","<sub table name>"]}`

all existing values in the sub table get deleted for the upsert record.

e.g. endpoint /LibMaster
RowAction value: {"DeleteAll":["lib_master_audio"]}
Will delete all existing lib_master_audio records (and add new ones if defined in the payload)

Verify that multiple sub tables can be defined.
Verify a selection of documents with sub tables are tested.


# Gzip Compression is now supported

[https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/17627](https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/17627)

By adding the header
Accept-Encoding:                                gzip  or deflate
Applies to all API methods.

Example:
To fetch a list of transactions for a date range.
_Without compression:_
Takes 5 seconds and a payload of 4.4 MB.
_With compression:_
Takes 4 seconds and a payload of 142 KB.
_Without compression:_
22 seconds with response size of **9.47 MB**
_With compression:_
8 seconds with response size of **320 KB**
~a 30th of the size.
Recommend to always use compression.

# Added query parameters for greater than and less than

You can now use query parameters with:

- LessThanOrEqual ($lte)
- LessThan ($lt)
- GreaterThanOrEqual ($gte)
- GreaterThan ($gt)

e.g. Title numbers greater than 106438

{"title_no":{"$gt": "106438"}}

·         notIn

Usage example: {{server}}/PmProjectList?query={"project_desc":{"$notin":["test", "Sarah"]}}

# Ability to use resultColumns for sub-table filtered URLs of maintenance docs.

[https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/20597](https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/20597)

REST API  - When calling a maintenance document using a GET call with a URL sub-table filter , you can now apply the 'resultColumns'  parameters to define the fields returned in the response body. Previously the resultColumns parameter was only respected for the primary table without a sub-table filter. 

e.g. **{{server}}/JmJob/job_no=342/jm_episode?resultColumns={"jm_episode":["title_no"]}**  
  
Will return only the title_no values for job 342

1. **Verify GET resultColumns for URL /document/sub-table filter**

{{server}}/XmTransmissionOrder/wo_no_seq=1072992-1/mo_service_row?resultColumns={"mo_service_row":["service_row_no"],"mo_operation":["operation_no","service_row_no","task_desc"]}

Verify that when I apply a URL sub-table filter to a maintenance document GET call, I can use the resultColumns parameter to return specific fields from the sub-sub-table.

**2. Verify GET resultColumns for /document/sub-table/sub-sub-table filter**

{{server}}/XmTransmissionOrder/wo_no_seq=1072992-1/mo_service_row/service_row_no=221083/mo_operation/operation_no=133119?resultColumns={"mo_operation":["operation_no","task_no"]}

Verify that when I apply a URL sub-sub-table filter to a maintenance document GET call, I can use the resultColumns parameter to return specific fields from the sub-sub-table.

_(Used MAIN_RUBY_V for the above examples)_

# Save Arguments

Table 1

|   |   |
|---|---|
|Endpoint|Save Argument|
|/SchResource|GroupCode|

[https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/9976](https://dev.azure.com/xytsystems/Xytech%20Platform/_workitems/edit/9976)

Sets the default Group for a Resource.

The Group must already be assigned to the Resource.

Use a PATCH call where the body does not need to change any values, but needs to exist for the call to work.

curl --location --request PATCH 'https://devwcumpapp2.xytech.xytechsystems.com/xyt_main/api/v2/database/XYT_MAIN_V/SchResource/resource_code=UKTECH01' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'SaveArgument: {"GroupCode":"UKPS"}' \
--header 'Authorization: Basic eHl0ZWNoOnh5dGVjaHB3' \
--**data** '[
    {
        "op": "replace",
        "path": "resource_code",
        "value": "UKTECH01"
    }
]'

# null date values 
Fixed in v10.6SP1 and v11
Creating date fields with null now sets the value to null as opposed to "0001-01-01T00:00:00"
Applies to POST/PUT/PATCH methods.







## Summary of what's new in v10.6

-   Swagger documentation now includes the PATCH method using a POST payload
-   Swagger includes example payloads for sub-tables (previously not populated).
-   Swagger now includes PATCH method for list documents.
-   Other Swagger improvements and correct missing parameter fields.
-   Additional header parameters for optimization and filtering
    -   Ignore alternate keys
    -   Omit null values
    -   Filter results for maintenance documents

