RESTful services utilize HTTP methods to differentiate between different types of API calls.

<table><tbody><tr><td><span><strong>Verb</strong></span></td><td><span><strong>Communi</strong><strong>ty Used For</strong></span></td></tr><tr><td>GET&nbsp;</td><td>Usually retrieves a representation of the resource’s current state, such as performing a simple query that gathers and returns information about one or more resources (e.g., database records) from the host system.<br>In the Platform API, GET commands are used to retrieve setup documents, maintenance documents, or list documents.<br>Examples include:<br>Retrieving a list of all records of a certain document type, such as all Bids, all Jobs, or all Contacts in the system,<ul><li>Retrieving a list of all records of a certain document type that match specified criteria, such as all Bids that start in the current year, all Jobs associated with a specific Client, or all Contacts whose names begin with the letter A, or</li><li>Retrieving a specific record of a certain document type, such as all the properties of a Job with a specific Job ID.</li></ul>Note: A GET command is entirely contained within the URI sent to the endpoint. As a result, there is a limit on the amount of text that can be sent to the API, so GET commands usually do not support a significant amount of search or filter criteria.</td></tr><tr><td>PATCH</td><td>Patch usually updates an existing state with a specified one using partial information. See also PUT to completely replace an existing state, and POST for updating an existing state in some cases. In the Platform API, usually updates an existing record, such as<br>changing the mailing address of a Contact or changing the status of a Job.</td></tr><tr><td>POST</td><td>Post usually processes the representation provided with the request to create a new representation or update an existing representation.&nbsp;<br>In the Platform API, POST commands are usually used to create new records, such as adding a new resource or creating a new Job.</td></tr><tr><td>PUT</td><td>Put usually updates an existing record by completely replacing an existing state with a specified one or creating a new state where the URI is already known. See also PATCH to replace only a portion of an existing state. In the Platform API, PUT commands will be used to perform upsert calls from v11; refer to POST commands for creating new items or PATCH commands for updating existing items.</td></tr><tr><td>DELETE</td><td>Delete commands are usually used to permanently remove existing records from the host system.&nbsp;<br>Note: DELETE commands should be used sparingly; to both preserve data integrity and provide historical information, it is usually recommended to change the Status of a record instead of deleting the record completely.</td></tr></tbody></table>

**Response Codes**

REST services are built on top of the HTTP protocol, so calls to the REST service generate HTTP response codes. In many cases, the HTTP response code will be accompanied by additional information in the header or body of the message. In some cases, the HTTP response code may be the only response.

<table><tbody><tr><td><span><strong>Response Code&nbsp;</strong></span></td><td><span><strong>Description</strong></span></td></tr><tr><td><strong>2xx range&nbsp;</strong></td><td><strong>Success Codes</strong></td></tr><tr><td>200 Ok</td><td>The call was successful. In most cases, there will be additional information returned by the API in the body of the message, such as the matching record(s) for a query, or the ID of a record created, modified, or deleted by a corresponding API call.</td></tr><tr><td>204 No Content</td><td>The server has fulfilled the request but does not need to return a response body. The server may return the updated meta information.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>4xx range&nbsp;</strong></td><td><strong>Client Error</strong></td></tr><tr><td>400 Bad Request</td><td>The call was not successful due to an error in the URL or the syntax of the API call. Check the syntax of the API call to make sure there are no invalid characters.</td></tr><tr><td>401 Unauthorized</td><td>The call was not successful because the API requires a valid<br>credentials, and they were not provided as part of the call.<br>Response Code Description Verify that the call is providing login information in an acceptable manner.</td></tr><tr><td>404 Not Found</td><td>The call was not successful because the service could not find the requested API. Check the URL for any mismatches between the API call being sent and the documented API signature.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>5xx range&nbsp;</strong></td><td><strong>Server Error</strong></td></tr><tr><td>500 Internal Server Error</td><td>The call was not successful because it caused an error in the service during processing, such as providing an incorrect data type for a given property/field. Verify that all parameters are correct, and values are valid.</td></tr><tr><td>502 Bad Gateway</td><td>The call was not successful because the service got an invalid response from the API. Verify that all parameters are correct, and values are valid.</td></tr></tbody></table>

  
For more information refer to the [appropriate section of the HTTP protoco](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html)l or a developer resource for HTTP status codes, such as the [MDN Web Docs.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status)
