This section describes using the third-party Postman application as an API client for testing and troubleshooting purposes. The example uses the JmJob (Job) endpoint.

### Xytech Public Postman Collection
An extensive set of example API calls is available via the [Platform’s REST API Postman Collection](https://www.postman.com/xytech-product-team/workspace/xytech-platform-public/collection/25646735-19fb63a8-470d-460d-9eea-d23248239302?action=share&creator=25646735). This collection contains example calls for three types of documents (maintenance, list, and setup). 

We suggest forking the collection to your own workspace which enables you to 'pull' for updates as the collection grows.
  
**To execute a GET call to retrieve an existing record:**

1.  Open the Postman application
2.  From File click New and click HTTP Request
3.  Leave the method as GET
4.  Enter the URL:  
    -   http://{base\_url}/API/v2/database/{dbname}/jmJob/job\_no=100 
        -   Replace {base\_url} & {dbname} with your base URL & database name and provide a valid Job Number that exists in your instance.
5.  On the Authorization tab, set Type to Basic Auth and enter a valid username and password, e.g. xytech/xytechpw
6.  Click Send and observe the response.

**To execute a POST call to create a new record:** 

1.  Open the Postman application.
2.  From **File** click **New** and click **HTTP Request**.
3.  Change the method to **POST**.
4.  Add a Header:
    -   Key: **Content-Type**
    -   Value: **application/json**
5.  Enter the URL: http://{base\_url}/API/v2/database/{dbname}/jmJob
6.  On the Authorization tab, set **Type** to Basic Auth and enter a valid username and password, e.g. xytech/xytechpw
7.  On the Body tab, set the type to **json,** and provide a valid JSON object with the minimum fields to create a job. For example, to create a simple Job:

{

    "jm\_job": \[

        {

            "cust\_id": {

                "list\_id": "409"

            },

            "job\_desc": "Passing Fancy",

            "job\_no": {

                "job\_no": \-1

            },

            "job\_type\_no": {

                "job\_type\_no": 11

            }

        }

    \]

}

**NOTES**:

-   -   To generate the primary key job\_no, set the value to -1.  
        When creating multiple sub-records in a single call, subsequent records must advance the primary key ID by -1. E.g -1, -2, -3 etc…
    -   Be aware some fields are mandatory such as Job Type (job\_type\_no) and Customer ID (list\_id).
    -   Numeric values will be accepted with or without quotes.

      8. Click **Send** and observe the response with status code 200 (success with response body).

The id of the created record is returned in a header parameter called 'Location'.

_In v10.6 SP1 a response payload will contain the ID(s) of newly created records._

**To execute a DELETE call to remove an existing record:**

1.  Open the Postman application.
2.  From **File** click **New** and click **HTTP Request**.
3.  Change the method to **DELETE**.
4.  Enter the URL:  
    http://{base\_url}/api/v2/database/{dbname}/JmJob/job\_no=67982
5.  On the Authorization tab, set **Type** to Basic Auth and enter a valid username and password, e.g. xytech/xytechpw
6.  Click **Send** and observe the response with status code 204 (success with no response body).

#### **Using cURL as a test client**

This section describes using the third-party cURL command line utility as an API client for testing and troubleshooting purposes. 

Many REST clients (either via an online tool or desktop application) use a lightweight program called curl to interact over many different types of network protocols (including HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, IMAP, etc.) Windows users may use the curl command from the Command Prompt to call teh REST API and output dumps of useful data.

Curl is included with Windows v10 1803 and later.

_Example curl on Windows to fetch job details and download the response to a file (replace credentails, base url and database name with your values_:

```
curl -u xytech:password <a href="https://{base/">https://{base_</a>url}/api/v2/database/{database name}/JmJob/job_no=342 -H "Accept: application/json" &gt;c:\temp\ApiResponse.txt
```
